# PPP-Round-2-Newly-Authorized-Initial
<p>SBA, in consultation with the U.S. Department of the Treasury , reopened the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) for First Draw PPP Loans the week of January 11, 2021. SBA began accepting applications for <a href="https://apnews.com/press-release/kisspr/technology-business-public-private-partnerships-government-business-and-finance-professional-services-f753e6c9084d94b3eaea1ea6803019ef">PPP Loan 2</a> on January 13, 2021.</p>
<p>SBA is currently accepting Second Draw PPP loan applications from participating lenders. Lender Match can help connect you with a lender.</p>
<p><strong>Loan details</strong></p>
<p>The Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) now allows certain eligible borrowers that previously received a PPP loan to use for a Second Draw PPP Loan with an equivalent general loan terms as their First Draw PPP Loan.</p>
<p>Second Draw PPP Loans are often wont to help fund payroll costs, including benefits. Funds also can be wont to buy mortgage interest, rent, utilities, worker protection costs associated with COVID-19, uninsured property damage costs caused by looting or vandalism during 2020, and certain supplier costs and expenses for operations.</p>
<p>Maximum loan amount and increased assistance for accommodation and food services businesses</p>
<p>For most borrowers, the utmost loan amount of a Second Draw PPP Loan is 2.5x average monthly 2019 or 2020 payroll costs up to $2 million. For borrowers within the Accommodation and Food Services sector (use NAICS 72 to confirm), the utmost loan amount for a Second Draw PPP Loan is 3.5x average monthly 2019 or 2020 payroll costs up to $2 million.</p>
<p>On December 27, a replacement COVID relief bill was signed changing the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). The highlight? Some businesses are going to be eligible for a second PPP loan. Here&rsquo;s what you would like to understand .</p>
<p><strong>Who may qualify</strong></p>
<p>A borrower is usually eligible for a Second Draw PPP Loan if the borrower:</p>
<p>Previously received a primary Draw PPP Loan and can or has used the complete amount just for authorized uses</p>
<p>Has no quite 300 employees; and</p>
<p>Can demonstrate a minimum of a 25% reduction in gross receipts between comparable quarters in 2019 and 2020</p>
<p><strong>PPP Round 2: Newly-Authorized Initial and Second Draw Paycheck Protection Program Loans and Other Changes Benefit Borrowers</strong></p>
<p>While many businesses desire they need gone 12 rounds of boxing with the COVID-19 pandemic and therefore the government measures taken in response thereto, recently enacted reforms to the Paycheck Protection Program (&ldquo;PPP&rdquo;) are providing a &ldquo;Round 2&rdquo; of financing in hopes of enabling certain borrowers on the ropes to avoid throwing within the towel. The aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (the &ldquo;Act&rdquo;), which was gone by Congress on December 21, 2020 then signed into law by President Trump on December 27, 2020 as a part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, makes significant changes to the PPP. The Act permits initial and &ldquo;second draw&rdquo; PPP loans to be made through March 31, 2021 (subject to availability of funds), and appropriates a further $284,450,000,000 for such loans, portions of which are set-aside surely borrowers and lenders. Although it's yet to be determined when the tiny Business Administration (&ldquo;SBA&rdquo;) will resume the PPP and when lenders will resume making PPP loans, SBA is required to issue additional rules concerning PPP starting as soon as Epiphany , 2021.</p>
